---
sidebar: false
outline: false
---
# Work

Below is a high-level summary of my work experience to date.

<div class="tip custom-block" style="padding-top: 8px">

Please use this link for a full résumé of my work: [PDF Résumé](./getting-started).

</div>

## NorthMark Compute & Cloud

  At NorthMark Compute & Cloud, I am currently leading Product Strategy for our NextGen High-Performance Computing platform. This includes the end-to-end journey of HPC users accessing and using [one of the largest private GPU clusters in the world](https://northmarkstrategies.com/whats-new/announcement/). 

  I also am the lead PM for two additional products, 
  - a custom full-stack global portfolio analytics tool managing $1B+ in assets.
  - a stealth product specializing in video ingestion for digital twin and scientific machine learning for performance recommendations in olympic sporting. 

## Walmart 

During my tenure at Walmart, I was on the Last Mile Delivery team responsible for [household expansion](https://www.fastcompany.com/91249519/walmart-is-turning-to-data-science-to-improve-its-delivery-game), [drone delivery](https://www.forbes.com/sites/markfaithfull/2024/05/13/walmart-drone-dream-has-been-cleared-for-take-off-in-dallas/?), and the launch of their [white label delivery service](https://www.walmartgolocal.com/content/go-local/go-local-home.html). 

- **[Vite-Powered:](https://vitejs.dev/)** instant server start, with edits always instantly reflected (<100ms) without page reload.

- **[Built-in Markdown Extensions:](./markdown)** Frontmatter, tables, syntax highlighting... you name it. Specifically, VitePress provides many advanced features for working with code blocks, making it ideal for highly technical documentation.

- **[Vue-Enhanced Markdown:](./using-vue)** each Markdown page is also a Vue [Single-File Component](https://vuejs.org/guide/scaling-up/sfc.html), thanks to Vue template's 100% syntax compatibility with HTML. You can embed interactivity in your static content using Vue templating features or imported Vue components.

## Performance

Unlike many traditional SSGs where each navigation results in a full page reload, a website generated by VitePress serves static HTML on the initial visit, but becomes a [Single Page Application](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application) (SPA) for subsequent navigation within the site. This model, in our opinion, provides an optimal balance for performance:

- **Fast Initial Load**

  The initial visit to any page will be served the static, pre-rendered HTML for fast loading speed and optimal SEO. The page then loads a JavaScript bundle that turns the page into a Vue SPA ("hydration"). Contrary to common assumptions of SPA hydration being slow, this process is actually extremely fast thanks to Vue 3's raw performance and compiler optimizations. On [PageSpeed Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fvitepress.dev%2F), typical VitePress sites achieve near-perfect performance scores even on low-end mobile devices with a slow network.

- **Fast Post-load Navigation**

  More importantly, the SPA model leads to better user experience **after** the initial load. Subsequent navigation within the site will no longer cause a full page reload. Instead, the incoming page's content will be fetched and dynamically updated. VitePress also automatically pre-fetches page chunks for links that are within viewport. In most cases, post-load navigation will feel instant.

- **Interactivity Without Penalty**

  To be able to hydrate the dynamic Vue parts embedded inside static Markdown, each Markdown page is processed as a Vue component and compiled into JavaScript. This may sound inefficient, but the Vue compiler is smart enough to separate the static and dynamic parts, minimizing both the hydration cost and payload size. For the initial page load, the static parts are automatically eliminated from the JavaScript payload and skipped during hydration.

## What About VuePress?

VitePress is the spiritual successor of VuePress 1. The original VuePress 1 was based on Vue 2 and webpack. With Vue 3 and Vite under the hood, VitePress provides significantly better DX, better production performance, a more polished default theme, and a more flexible customization API.

The API difference between VitePress and VuePress 1 mostly lies in theming and customization. If you are using VuePress 1 with the default theme, it should be relatively straightforward to migrate to VitePress.

Maintaining two SSGs in parallel isn't sustainable, so the Vue team has decided to focus on VitePress as the main recommended SSG in the long run. Now VuePress 1 has been deprecated, and VuePress 2 has been handed over to the VuePress community team for further development and maintenance.